Chairman Grassley, Ranking Member Feinstein, Members of the
Committee. My name is Christine Blasey Ford. I am a Professor of
Psychology at Palo Alto University and a Research Psychologist at the
Stanford University School of Medicine.

I was an undergraduate at the University of North Carolina and earned
my degree in Experimental Psychology in 1988. I received a Master’s
degree in 1991 in Clinical Psychology from Pepperdine University. In
1996, I received a PhD in Educational Psychology from the University
of Southern California. I earned a Master’s degree in Epidemiology
from the Stanford University School of Medicine in 2009.

I have been married to Russell Ford since 2002 and we have two children.

I am here today not because I want to be. I am terrified. I am here
because I believe it is my civic duty to tell you what happened to me
while Brett Kavanaugh and I were in high school.  I have described the
events publicly before. I summarized them in my letter to Ranking
Member Feinstein, and again in my letter to Chairman Grassley. I
understand and appreciate the importance of your hearing from me
directly about what happened to me and the impact it has had on my
life and on my family.

I grew up in the suburbs of Washington, D.C. I attended the
Holton-Arms School in Bethesda, Maryland, from 1980 to
1984. Holton-Arms is an all-girls school that opened in 1901.  During
my time at the school, girls at Holton-Arms frequently met and became
friendly with boys from all-boys schools in the area, including Landon
School, Georgetown Prep, Gonzaga High School, country clubs, and
other places where kids and their families socialized. This is how I
met Brett Kavanaugh, the boy who sexually assaulted me.

In my freshman and sophomore school years, when I was 14 and 15 years
old, my group of friends intersected with Brett and his friends for a
short period of time. I had been friendly with a classmate of Brett’s
for a short time during my freshman year, and it was through that
connection that I attended a number of parties that Brett also
attended. We did not know each other well, but I knew him and he knew
me. In the summer of 1982, like most summers, I spent almost every day
at the Columbia Country Club in Chevy Chase, Maryland swimming and
practicing diving.

One evening that summer, after a day of swimming at the club, I
attended a small gathering at a house in the Chevy Chase/Bethesda
area. There were four boys I remember being there: Brett Kavanaugh,
Mark Judge, P.J. Smyth, and one other boy whose name I cannot
recall. I remember my friend Leland Ingham attending. I do not
remember all of the details of how that gathering came together, but
like many that summer, it was almost surely a spur of the moment
gathering. I truly wish I could provide detailed answers to all of the
questions that have been and will be asked about how I got to the
party, where it took place, and so forth. I don’t have all the
answers, and I don’t remember as much as I would like to. But the
details about that night that bring me here today are ones I will
never forget. They have been seared into my memory and have haunted me
episodically as an adult.

When I got to the small gathering, people were drinking beer in a
small living room on the first floor of the house. I drank one beer
that evening. Brett and Mark were visibly drunk. Early in the evening,
I went up a narrow set of stairs leading from the living room to a
second floor to use the bathroom. When I got to the top of the stairs,
I was pushed from behind into a bedroom.  I couldn’t see who pushed
me. Brett and Mark came into the bedroom and locked the door behind 
them. There was music already playing in the bedroom. It was turned up
louder by either Brett or Mark once we were in the room. I was pushed
onto the bed and Brett got on top of me. He began running his hands
over my body and grinding his hips into me. I yelled, hoping someone
downstairs might hear me, and tried to get away from him, but his
weight was heavy. Brett groped me and tried to take off my clothes. He
had a hard time because he was so drunk, and because I was wearing a
one-piece bathing suit under my clothes. I believed he was going to
rape me. I tried to yell for help. When I did, Brett put his hand over
my mouth to stop me from screaming.  This was what terrified me the
most, and has had the most lasting impact on my life. It was hard for
me to breathe, and I thought that Brett was accidentally going to kill
me. Both Brett and Mark were drunkenly laughing during the
attack. They both seemed to be having a good time. Mark was urging
Brett on, although at times he told Brett to stop. A couple of times I
made eye contact with Mark and thought he might try to help me, but he
did not.

During this assault, Mark came over and jumped on the bed twice while
Brett was on top of me. The last time he did this, we toppled over and
Brett was no longer on top of me. I was able to get up and run out of
the room. Directly across from the bedroom was a small bathroom. I ran
inside the bathroom and locked the door. I heard Brett and Mark leave
the bedroom laughing and loudly walk down the narrow stairs,
pin-balling off the walls on the way down. I waited and when I did not
hear them come back up the stairs, I left the bathroom, ran down the
stairs, through the living room, and left the house. I remember being
on the street and feeling an enormous sense of relief that I had
escaped from the house and that Brett and Mark were not coming after
me.

Brett’s assault on me drastically altered my life. For a very long
time, I was too afraid and ashamed to tell anyone the details. I did
not want to tell my parents that I, at age 15, was in a house without
any parents present, drinking beer with boys. I tried to convince
myself that because Brett did not rape me, I should be able to move
on and just pretend that it had never happened. Over the years, I told
very few friends that I had this traumatic experience. I told my
husband before we were married that I had experienced a sexual
assault. I had never told the details to anyone until May 2012, during
a couples counseling session. The reason this came up in counseling is
that my husband and I had completed an extensive remodel of our home,
and I insisted on a second front door, an idea that he and others
disagreed with and could not understand. In explaining why I wanted to
have a second front door, I described the assault in detail. I recall
saying that the boy who assaulted me could someday be on the
U.S. Supreme Court and spoke a bit about his background. My husband
recalls that I named my attacker as Brett Kavanaugh.

After that May 2012 therapy session, I did my best to suppress
memories of the assault because recounting the details caused me to
relive the experience, and caused panic attacks and
anxiety. Occasionally I would discuss the assault in individual
therapy, but talking about it caused me to relive the trauma, so I
tried not to think about it or discuss it. But over the years, I went
through periods where I thought about Brett’s attack. I confided in
some close friends that I had an experience with sexual
assault. Occasionally I stated that my assailant was a prominent
lawyer or judge but I did not use his name. I do not recall each
person I spoke to about Brett’s assault, and some friends have
reminded me of these conversations since the publication of The
Washington Post story on September 16, 2018. But until July 2018, I
had never named Mr.  Kavanaugh as my attacker outside of therapy.
This all changed in early July 2018. I saw press reports stating that
Brett Kavanaugh was on the “short list” of potential Supreme Court
nominees. I thought it was my civic duty to relay the information I
had about Mr. Kavanaugh’s conduct so that those considering his
potential nomination would know about the assault. 

On July 6, 2018, I had a sense of urgency to relay the information to
the Senate and the President as soon as possible before a nominee was
selected. I called my congressional representative and let her
receptionist know that someone on the President’s shortlist had
attacked me. I also sent a message to The Washington Post’s
confidential tip line. I did not use my name, but I provided the names
of Brett Kavanaugh and Mark Judge. I stated that Mr. Kavanaugh had
assaulted me in the 1980s in Maryland. This was an extremely hard
thing for me to do, but I felt I couldn’t NOT do it. Over the next two
days, I told a couple of close friends on the beach in California that
Mr. Kavanaugh had sexually assaulted me. I was conflicted about
whether to speak out.

On July 9, 2018, I received a call from the office of Congresswoman
Anna Eshoo after Mr.  Kavanaugh had become the nominee. I met with her
staff on July 11 and with her on July 13, describing the assault and
discussing my fear about coming forward. Later, we discussed the
possibility of sending a letter to Ranking Member Feinstein, who is
one of my state’s Senators, describing what occurred. My understanding
is that Representative Eshoo’s office delivered a copy of my letter to
Senator Feinstein’s office on July 30, 2018. The letter included my
name, but requested that the letter be kept confidential.

My hope was that providing the information confidentially would be
sufficient to allow the Senate to consider Mr. Kavanaugh’s serious
misconduct without having to make myself, my family, or anyone’s
family vulnerable to the personal attacks and invasions of privacy we
have faced since my name became public. In a letter on August 31,
2018, Senator Feinstein wrote that she would not share the letter
without my consent. I greatly appreciated this commitment. All sexual
assault victims should be able to decide for themselves whether their
private experience is made public.


As the hearing date got closer, I struggled with a terrible choice: Do
I share the facts with the Senate and put myself and my family in the
public spotlight? Or do I preserve our privacy and allow the Senate to
make its decision on Mr. Kavanaugh’s nomination without knowing the
full truth about his past behavior?

I agonized daily with this decision throughout August and early
September 2018. The sense of duty that motivated me to reach out
confidentially to The Washington Post, Representative Eshoo’s office,
and Senator Feinstein’s office was always there, but my fears of the
consequences of speaking out started to increase.

During August 2018, the press reported that Mr. Kavanaugh’s
confirmation was virtually certain. His allies painted him as a
champion of women’s rights and empowerment. I believed that if I came
forward, my voice would be drowned out by a chorus of powerful
supporters. By the time of the confirmation hearings, I had resigned
myself to remaining quiet and letting the Committee and the Senate
make their decision without knowing what Mr. Kavanaugh had done to me.

Once the press started reporting on the existence of the letter I had
sent to Senator Feinstein, I faced mounting pressure. Reporters
appeared at my home and at my job demanding information about this
letter, including in the presence of my graduate students. They called
my boss and coworkers and left me many messages, making it clear that
my name would inevitably be released to the media. I decided to speak
out publicly to a journalist who had responded to the tip I had sent
to The Washington Post and who had gained my trust. It was important
to me to describe the details of the assault in my own words.


Since September 16, the date of The Washington Post story, I have
experienced an outpouring of support from people in every state of
this country. Thousands of people who have had their lives
dramatically altered by sexual violence have reached out to share
their own experiences with me and have thanked me for coming
forward. We have received tremendous support from friends and our
community.  At the same time, my greatest fears have been realized –
and the reality has been far worse than what I expected. My family and
I have been the target of constant harassment and death threats. I
have been called the most vile and hateful names imaginable. These
messages, while far fewer than the expressions of support, have been
terrifying to receive and have rocked me to my core. People have
posted my personal information on the internet. This has resulted in
additional emails, calls, and threats. My family and I were forced to
move out of our home. Since September 16, my family and I have been
living in various secure locales, with guards. This past Tuesday
evening, my work email account was hacked and messages were sent out
supposedly recanting my description of the sexual assault.

Apart from the assault itself, these last couple of weeks have been
the hardest of my life. I have had to relive my trauma in front of the
entire world, and have seen my life picked apart by people on
television, in the media, and in this body who have never met me or
spoken with me. I have been accused of acting out of partisan
political motives. Those who say that do not know me. I am a fiercely
independent person and I am no one’s pawn. My motivation in coming
forward was to provide the facts about how Mr. Kavanaugh’s actions
have damaged my life, so that you can take that into serious
consideration as you make your decision about how to proceed. It is
not my responsibility to determine whether Mr. Kavanaugh deserves to
sit on the Supreme Court. My responsibility is to tell the truth.


I understand that the Majority has hired a professional prosecutor to
ask me some questions, and I am committed to doing my very best to
answer them. At the same time, because the Committee Members will be
judging my credibility, I hope to be able to engage directly with each
of you.

At this point, I will do my best to answer your questions. 
