Mr. Chairman, Ranking Member Feinstein, members of the committee,
thank you for allowing me to make my statement. I wrote it myself
yesterday afternoon and evening. No one has seen a draft of it except
for one of my former law clerks. This is my statement.

Less than two weeks ago, Dr. Ford publicly accused me of committing
wrongdoing at an event more than 36 years ago when we were both in
high school. I denied the allegation immediately, categorically and
unequivocally. All four people allegedly at the event, including
Dr. Ford’s longtime friend, Ms. Keyser, have said they recall no such
event. Her longtime friend, Ms. Keyser, said under penalty of felony
that she does not know me and does not believe she ever saw me at a
party ever. Here’s the quote from Ms. Keyser’s attorney’s
letter. “Simply put, Ms. Keyser does not know Mr. Kavanaugh and she
has no recollection of ever being at a party or gathering where he was
present with or without Dr. Ford.” Think about that fact.

The day after the allegation appeared, I told this committee that I
wanted a hearing as soon as possible to clear my name. I demanded a
hearing for the very next day. Unfortunately, it took the committee 10
days to get to this hearing. In those 10 long days, as was predictable
and as I predicted, my family and my name have been totally and
permanently destroyed by vicious and false additional accusations. The
10-day delay has been harmful to me and my family, to the Supreme
Court and to the country. When this allegation first arose, I welcomed
any kind of investigation. Senate, F.B.I. or otherwise. The committee
now has conducted a thorough investigation, and I’ve cooperated fully.

I know that any kind of investigation, Senate, F.B.I., Montgomery
County police, whatever will clear me. Listen to the people I
know. Listen to the people that have known me my whole life. Listen to
the people that I’ve grown up with and worked with and played with and
coached with and dated and taught and gone to games with and had beers
with. And listen to the witnesses who allegedly were at this event 36
years ago. Listen to Ms. Keyser. She does not know me. I was not at
the party described by Dr. Ford. This confirmation process has become
a national disgrace. The Constitution gives the Senate an important
role in the confirmation process. But you have replaced “advice and
consent” with “search and destroy.”

Since my nomination in July, there’s been a frenzy on the left to come
up with something, anything to block my confirmation. Shortly after I
was nominated, the Democratic Senate leader said he would “oppose me
with everything he’s got.” A Democratic senator on this committee
publicly referred to me as evil. Evil. Think about that word. And said
that those that supported me were “complicit and evil.” Another
Democratic senator on this committee said, “Judge Kavanaugh is your
worst nightmare.” A former head of the Democratic National Committee
said, “Judge Kavanaugh will threaten the lives of millions of
Americans for decades to come.”

I understand the passions of the moment. But I would say to those
senators: Your words have meaning. Millions of Americans listened
carefully to you. Given comments like those, is it any surprise that
people have been willing to do anything to make any physical threat
against my family? To send any violent email to my wife, to make any
kind of allegation against me, and against my friends, to blow me up
and take me down.

You sowed the wind for decades to come. I fear that the whole country
will reap the whirlwinds. The behavior of several of the Democratic
members of this committee at my hearing a few weeks ago was an
embarrassment. But at least it was just a good old-fashioned attempt
at Borking. Those efforts didn’t work.

I Have No Idea How to Tell This Horror Story’ When I did at least
O.K. enough at the hearings that it looks like I might actually get
confirmed, a new tactic was needed. Some of you were lying in wait and
had it ready. This first allegation was held in secret for weeks by a
Democratic member of this committee and by staff. It would be needed
only if you couldn’t take me out on the merits. When it was needed,
this allegation was unleashed and publicly deployed over Dr. Ford’s
wishes.

And then, and then, as no doubt was expected, if not planned, came a
long series of false last-minute smears designed to scare me and drive
me out of the process before any hearing occurred. Crazy stuff. Gangs,
illegitimate children, fights on boats in Rhode Island. All
nonsense. Reported breathlessly and often uncritically by the
media. This has destroyed my family and my good name. A good name
built up through decades of very hard work and public service at the
highest levels of the American government.

This whole two-week effort has been a calculated and orchestrated
political hit, fueled with apparent pent-up anger about President
Trump and the 2016 election, fear that has been unfairly stoked about
my judicial record, revenge on behalf of the Clintons and millions of
dollars in money from outside left-wing opposition groups.

This is a circus. The consequences will extend long past my
nomination. The consequences will be with us for decades. This
grotesque and coordinated character assassination will dissuade
confident and good people of all political persuasions from serving
our country. And as we all know in the United States political system
of the early 2000s, what goes around comes around.

I am an optimistic guy. I always try to be on the sunrise side of the
mountain, to be optimistic about the day that is coming, but today, I
have to say that I fear for the future. Last time I was here, I told
this committee that a federal judge must be independent, not swayed by
public or political pressure. I said I was such a judge. And I am.

I will not be intimidated into withdrawing from this process. You have
tried hard. You’ve given it your all. No one can question your
efforts. Your coordinated and well-funded efforts to destroy my good
name and destroy my family will not drag me out. The vile threats of
violence against my family will not drive me out. You may defeat me in
the final vote, but you’ll never get me to quit. Never.

I’m here today to tell the truth. I’ve never sexually assaulted
anyone. Not in high school, not in college, not ever. Sexual assault
is horrific. One of my closest friends to this day is a woman who was
sexually abused, and who in the 1990s when we were in our 30s,
confided in me about the abuse. Sought my advice. I was one of the
only people she consulted. Allegations of sexual assault must always
be taken seriously, always. Those that make allegations always deserve
to be heard.

At the same time, the person who is the subject of the allegations
also deserves to be heard. Due process is the foundation of the
American rule of law. Due process means listening to both sides.

As I told you in my hearing three weeks ago, I’m the only child of
Martha and Ed Kavanaugh. They’re here today. When I was 10, my mom
went to law school. And as a lawyer, she worked hard and overcame
barriers including the workplace sexual harassment that so many women
faced at the time and still face today. She became a trail blazer, one
of Maryland’s earliest women prosecutors and trial judges. She and my
dad taught me the importance of a quality and respect for all people
and she inspired me to be a lawyer and a judge.

Last time I was here, I told you that when my mom was a prosecutor and
I was in high school, she used to practice her closing arguments at
the dining room table on my dad and me. As I told you, her trademark
line was, use your common sense. What rings true. What rings
false. Her trademark line is a good reminder as we sit here today,
some 36 years after the alleged event occurred when there is no
corroboration and indeed it is refuted by the people allegedly there.

After I have been in the public arena for 26 years without even a
hint, a whiff of an allegation like this. And when my nomination to
the Supreme Court was just about to be voted on, at a time when I’m
called evil by a Democratic member of this committee, while Democratic
opponents of my nomination say people will die if I’m confirmed, this
onslaught of last-minute allegations does not ring true.

I’m not questioning that Dr. Ford may have been sexually assaulted by
some person in some place at some time. But I have never done this to
her or to anyone. That’s not who I am, it is not who I was. I am
innocent of this charge. I intend no ill will to Dr. Ford and her
family.

The other night, Ashley and my daughter Liza a said their
prayers. Little Liza, all of 10 years old, said to Ashley, we should
pray for the woman. That’s a lot of wisdom from a 10-year-old. We mean
no ill will.

First, let’s start with my career. For the last 26 years since 1992, I
have served in many high-profile and sensitive government positions
for which the F.B.I. has investigated my background six separate
times. Six separate F.B.I. background investigations over 26
years. All of them after the event alleged here. I have been in the
public arena in under extreme public scrutiny for decades.

In 1992, I worked for the Office of Solicitor General in the
Department of Justice. In 1993, I clerked on the Supreme Court for
Justice Anthony Kennedy. I spent four years at the independent
counsel’s office during the 1990s. That office was the subject of
enormous scrutiny from the media and the public. During 1998, the year
of the impeachment of President Clinton, our office generally and I
personally were in the middle of an intense national media and
political spotlight. I and other leading members of Ken Starr’s office
were opposition research from head to toe, from birth through the
present day.

Recall the people who were exposed that year of 1998 of having engaged
in some sexual wrongdoings or problems in their past. One person on
the left even paid a million dollars for reports of sexual
wrongdoing. And it worked. Exposed some prominent people. Nothing
about me.

From 2001 to 2006, I worked for President George W. Bush in the white
house. As staff secretary, I was by President Bush’s side for three
years and was entrusted with the nation’s most sensitive secrets. I
traveled on Air Force One all over the country and the world with
President Bush. I went everywhere with him from Texas to Pakistan,
from Alaska to Australia, from Buckingham Palace to the Vatican. Three
years in the West Wing, 5½ years in the White House.

I was then nominated to be a judge on the D.C. Circuit. I was
thoroughly vetted by the White House, the F.B.I., the American Bar
Association and this committee. I sat before this committee for two
thorough confirmation hearings in 2004 and 2006. For the past 12
years, leading up to my nomination for this job, I’ve served in a very
public arena as a federal judge on what is often referred to as the
second most important court in the country. I’ve handled some of the
most significant and sensitive cases, affecting the lives and
liberties of the American people. I have been a good judge. And for
this nomination, another F.B.I. investigation, another American Bar
Association investigation, 31 hours of hearings, 65 senator meetings,
1200 written questions, more than all previous Supreme Court nominees
combined.

Throughout that entire time, throughout my 53 years and seven months
on this Earth until last week, no one ever accused me of any kind of
sexual misconduct. No one ever. A lifetime. A lifetime of public
service and a lifetime of high-profile public service at the highest
levels of American government. And never a hint of anything of this
kind. And that’s because nothing of this kind ever happened.

Second, let’s turn to specifics. I categorically and unequivocally
deny the allegation against me by Dr. Ford. I never had any sexual or
physical encounter of any kind with Dr. Ford. I never attended a
gathering like the one that Dr. Ford describes in her allegation. I’ve
never sexually assaulted Dr. Ford or anyone. Again, I’m not
questioning that Dr. Ford may have been sexually assaulted by some
person, in some place, at some time, but I have never done that to her
or to anyone.

Dr. Ford’s allegation stems from a party that she alleges occurred
during the summer of 1982. Thirty-six years ago. I was 17 years
old. Between my junior and senior years of high school at Georgetown
Prep, a rigorous all-boys Catholic Jesuit high school in Rockville,
Md. When my friends and I spent time together at parties on weekends,
it was usually with friends from nearby Catholic all-girl high
schools: Stone Ridge, Holy Child, Visitation, Immaculata, Holy Cross.

Dr. Ford did not attend one of those schools. She attended an
independent private school named Holton-Arms and she was a year behind
me. She and I did not travel in the same social circles. It’s possible
we met at some point at some events, although I do not recall that. To
repeat, all of the people identified by Dr. Ford as being present at
the party have said they do not remember any such party ever
happening. Importantly, her friend, Ms. Keyser, has not only denied
knowledge of the party, Ms. Keyser said under penalty of felony, she
does not know me. Does not recall ever being at a party with me
ever. And my two male friends who were allegedly there, who knew me
well, have told this committee under penalty of felony that they don’t
recall any such party and I never did or never would do anything like
this.

Dr. Ford’s allegation is not merely uncorroborated, it is refuted by
the very people she says were there, including by a longtime friend of
hers. Refuted. Third, Dr. Ford has said that this event occurred at a
house near Columbia Country Club, which is at the corner of
Connecticut Avenue and East West highway in Chevy Chase, Md. In her
letter to Senator Feinstein, she said there were four other people at
the house. But none of those people, nor I, lived near Columbia
Country Club. As of the summer of 1982, Dr. Ford was 15 and could not
drive yet. And she did not live near Columbia Country Club. She says
confidently that she had one beer at the party. But she does not say
how she got to the house in question or how she got home or whose
house it was.

Fourth, I have submitted to this committee detailed calendars
recording my activities in the summer of 1982. Why did I keep
calendars? My dad started keeping detailed calendars of his life in
1978. He did so as both a calendar and a diary. He’s a very organized
guy, to put it mildly. Christmastime, we sat around and he would tell
old stories. Old milestones, old weddings, old events from his
calendars.

In ninth grade — in ninth grade in 1980, I started keeping calendars
of my own. For me also, it’s both a calendar and a diary. I’ve kept
such calendar diaries for the last 38 years. Mine are not as good as
my dad’s, in some years, and when I was a kid, the calendars are about
what you would expect from a kid. Some goofy parts, some embarrassing
parts. But I did have the summer of 1982 documented pretty well.

The event described by Dr. Ford presumably happened on a weekend
because I believe everyone worked and had jobs in the summers. In any
event, a drunken early evening event of the kind she describes
presumably happened on a weekend. If it was a weekend, my calendars
show that I was out of town almost every weekend night before football
training camp started in late August. The only weekend nights that I
was in D.C. were Friday, June 4, when I was with my dad at a pro-golf
tournament and had my high school achievement test at 8:30 the next
morning. I also was in D.C. on Saturday night, Aug. 7, but I was at a
small gathering at Becky’s house in Rockville with Matt, Denise, Lori
and Jenny. Their names are all listed on my calendar. I won’t use
their last names here. And then on the weekend of Aug. 20 to 22, I was
staying at the Garretts’ with Pat and Chris as we did final
preparations for football training camp that began on Sunday the 22nd.

As the calendars confirm, that weekend before a brutal football
training camp schedule was no time for parties. So let me emphasize
this point: If the party described by Dr. Ford happened in the summer
of 1982 on a weekend night, my calendar shows all but definitively I
was not there. During the weekdays in the summer of 1982, as you can
see, I was out of town for two weeks of the summer for a trip to the
beach with friends and at the legendary five-star basketball camp in
Honesdale, Pa.

When I was in town, I spent much of my time working, working out,
lifting weights, playing basketball or hanging out and having some
beers with friends as we talked about life and football and school and
girls. Some have noticed I didn’t have church on Sundays on my
calendars. I also didn’t list brushing my teeth and for me, going to
church on Sundays was like brushing my teeth. Automatic. Still is.

In the summer of 1981, I had worked construction. In the summer of
1982, my job was cutting lawns. I had my own business of sorts. You
see some specifics about the lawn cutting listed on the August
calendar page. When I had the time, the last lawn cuttings of the
summer of various lawns before football training camp. I played in a
lot of summer league basketball games for the Georgetown prep team at
night at Blair High School in Silver Spring.

Many nights I worked out with other guys at Tobin’s house. He was the
great quarterback on our football team, and his dad ran workouts. We
lifted weights at Georgetown prep in preparation for the football
season. I attended and watched many sporting events, as is my habit to
this day. The calendars show a few weekday gatherings at friends’
houses to meet up and have some beers and work out. But one of those
gathering included the group of people that Dr. Ford has
identified. And as my calendars show, I was very precise about listing
who was there. Very precise.

And keep in mind, my calendars also are diaries of
sorts. Forward-looking and backward-looking, just like my dad’s. You
can see, for example, that I crossed out missed workouts and the
canceled doctor’s appointments and that I listed the precise people
that had shown up for certain events. The calendars are obviously not
dispositive on their own, but they’re another piece of evidence in the
mix for you to consider.

Fifth, Dr. Ford’s allegation is radically inconsistent with my record
and my character from my youth to the present day. As students at an
all-boys Catholic Jesuit school, many of us became friends and remain
friends to this day with students at local Catholic all-girl
schools. One feature of my life — that has remained true to the
present day — is that I’ve always had a lot of close female
friends. I’m not talking about girlfriends. I’m talking about friends
who are women.

That started in high school. Maybe it was ’cause I’m an only child and
had no sisters. But we had no social media or texts and email and we
talked on the phone. I remember talking almost every night, it seemed,
to my friends Amy or Julie or Kristin or Karen or Suzanne or Maura or
Megan or Nicki. The list goes on. Friends for a lifetime built on a
foundation of talking through school and life starting at age
14. Several of those great women are in the seats right behind me
today.

My friends and I sometimes got together and had parties on
weekends. The drinking age was 18 in Maryland for most of my time in
high school and was 18 in D.C. for all of my time in high school. I
drank beer with my friends. Almost everyone did. Sometimes I had too
many beers. Sometimes others did. I liked beer. I still like beer. But
I did not drink beer to the point of blacking out and I never sexually
assaulted anyone.

There is a bright line between drinking beer, which I gladly do and
which I fully embrace, and sexually assaulting someone, which is a
violent crime. If every American who drinks beer or every American who
drank beer in high school is suddenly presumed guilty of sexual
assault, we’ll be an ugly new place in this country.

I never committed sexual assault. As high school students, we
sometimes did goofy or stupid things. I doubt we were alone in looking
back at high school and cringing at some things. For one thing, our
yearbook was a disaster. I think some editors and some students wanted
the yearbook to be a combination of “Animal House,” “Caddyshack” and
“Fast Times at Ridgemont High,” which were all recent movies at that
time. Many of us went along in the yearbook to the point of
absurdity. This past week, my friends and I have cringed when we read
about it and talked to each other.

One thing in particular we’re sad about: One of our good — one of our
good female friends that we admired and went to dances with, we had
her name on the yearbook page with the term “alumnus.” That yearbook
reference was clumsily meant to show affection, that she was one of
us. But in this circus, the media has interpreted the term as related
to sex. It’s not related to sex.

As the woman herself noted to the media on the record, she and I never
had any sexual interaction at all. So sorry to her for that yearbook
reference. This may sound a bit trivial, given all that we are here
for, but one thing I want to try to make sure of in the future is my
friendship with her. She was and is a great person.

As to sex, this is not a topic I ever imagined would come up at a
judicial confirmation hearing. But I want to give you a full picture
of who I was. I never had sexual intercourse or anything close to it
during high school or for many years after that. In some crowds, I was
probably a little outwardly shy about my inexperience. Tried to hide
that. At the same time I was also inwardly proud of it. For me and the
girls who I was friends with, that lack of major or rampant sexual
activity in high school was a matter of faith and respect and caution.

The committee has a letter from 65 women who knew me in high
school. They said I always treated them with dignity and respect. That
letter came together in one night, 35 years after graduation, while a
sexual assault allegation was pending against me in a very fraught and
public situation where they knew, they knew they’d be vilified if they
defended me.

Think about that. They put themselves on the line for me. Those are
some awesome women. And I love all of them.

You also have a letter from women who knew me in college. Most were
varsity athletes. And they described that I treated them as friends
and equals and supported them in their sports at a time when women
sports was emerging in the wake of Title IX. I thank all of them for
all of their texts and their emails and their support.

One of those women friends from college, a self-described liberal and
feminist, sent me a text last night that said, “Deep breaths, you’re a
good man, a good man, a good man.”

A text yesterday from another of those women friends from college
said: “Brett, be strong. Pulling for you to my core.”

A third text yesterday from yet another of those women I’m friends
with from college said, “I’m holding you in the light of God.”

As I said in my opening statement the last time I was with you:
Cherish your friends, look out for your friends, lift up your friends,
love your friends. I felt that love more over the last two weeks than
I ever have in my life. I thank all my friends. I love all my friends.

Throughout my life, I’ve devoted huge efforts to encouraging and
promoting the careers of women. I will put my record up against
anyone’s, male or female. I am proud of the letter from 84 women, 84
women who worked with me at the Bush White House from 2001 to 2006 and
described me as “a man of the highest integrity.” Read the op-ed from
Sarah Day from Yarmouth, Me. She worked in Oval Office Operations
outside of President Bush’s office.

Here’s what she recently wrote in centralmaine.com. And today she
stands by her comments: “Brett was an advocate for young women like
me. He encouraged me to take on more responsibility and to feel
confident in my role. In fact, during the 2004 Republican National
Convention, Brett gave me the opportunity to help with the preparation
and review of the president’s remarks, something I never — something I
never would have had the chance to do if he had not included me. And
he didn’t just include me in the work. He made sure I was at Madison
Square Garden to watch the president’s speech instead of back at the
hotel watching it on TV.”

As a judge, since 2006, I’ve had the privilege of hiring four recent
law school graduates to serve as my law clerks each year. The law
clerks for federal judges are the best and brightest graduates of
American law schools. They work for one-year terms for judges after
law school and then they move on in their careers.

For judges, training these young lawyers is an important
responsibility. The clerks will become the next generation of American
lawyers and leaders, judges and senators. Just after I took the bench
in 2006, there was a major New York Times story about the low numbers
of women law clerks at the Supreme Court and federal appeals courts. I
took notice, and I took action. A majority of my 48 law clerks over
the last 12 years have been women. In a letter to this committee, my
women law clerks said I was one of the strongest advocates in the
federal judiciary for women lawyers, and they wrote that the legal
profession is fairer and more equal because of me. In my time on the
bench, no federal judge, not a single one in the country has sent more
women law clerks to clerk on the Supreme Court than I have.

Before this allegation arose two weeks ago, I was required to start
making certain administrative preparations for my possible transfer to
the Supreme Court, just in case I was confirmed. As part of that, I
had to in essence contingently hire a first group of four law clerks
who could be available to clerk at the Supreme Court for me on a
moment’s notice. I did so and contingently hired four law clerks. All
four are women. If confirmed, I’ll be the first justice in the history
of the Supreme Court to have a group of all women law clerks. That is
who I am. That is who I was.

Over the past 12 years, I’ve taught constitutional law to hundreds of
students, primarily at Harvard Law School, where I was hired by
then-Dean and now-Justice Elena Kagan. One of my former women
students, a Democrat, testified to this committee that I was an
evenhanded professor who treats people fairly and with respect.

In a letter to this committee, my former students male and female
alike wrote that I displayed a character that impressed us all. I love
teaching law. But thanks to what some of you on this side of the
committee unleashed, I may never be able to teach again.

For the past seven years, I’ve coached my two daughters’ basketball
teams. You saw many of those girls when they came to my hearing for a
couple of hours. You have a letter from the parents of the girls I
coached that describe my dedication, commitment and character. I
coached because I know that a girl’s confidence on the basketball
court translates in the confidence in other aspects of life.

I love coaching more than anything I have ever done in my whole
life. But thanks to what some of you on this side of the committee
have unleashed, I may never be able to coach again.

I’ve been a judge for 12 years. I have a long record of service to
America, and to the Constitution. I revere the constitution. I am
deeply grateful to President Trump for nominating me. He was so
gracious to my family and me on the July night he announced my
nomination at the White House.

I thank him for his steadfast support. When I accepted the president’s
nomination, Ashley and I knew this process would be challenging. We
never expected that it would devolve into this. Explaining this to our
daughters has been about the worst experience of our lives. Ashley has
been a rock. I thank God every day for Ashley and my family.

We live in a country devoted to due process and the rule of law. That
means taking allegations seriously. But if the mere allegation, the
mere assertion of an allegation, a refuted allegation from 36 years
ago is enough to destroy a person’s life and career, we will have
abandoned the basic principles of fairness and due process that define
our legal system and our country.

I ask you to judge me by the standard that you would want applied to
your father, your husband, your brother or your son.

My family and I intend no ill will toward Dr. Ford or her family. But
I swear today under oath before the Senate and the nation before my
family and God, I am innocent of this charge.
